okay objectively this is a bad
smartphone but something is going on
here that's kind of
nice away this thing is called the books
Palma b x kind of a weird name it's
supposed to read like books but it some
people say books but the idea is it's an
eaper device that's supposed to blend
the world of the smartphone and the
Kindle now I don't want call it a cult
or anything like that but this thing has
definitely formed its own little fan
base over the past couple of months
where hey you either know about it or
you don't you're either in or you're not
in so the modern smartphone is kind of
ridiculous if you haven't thought about
it lately just just take a second it's
kind of a Marvel of engineering it's
amazing that we fit all of this
computing power and an amazing screen
and a super fast internet connection and
a bunch of high quality cameras and
sensors in this tiny little glass box
that fits in our pockets and lasts all
day so there is a lot of upside that
comes with that but there is a certain
downside too which is sometimes it can
be a little bit much like it can be just
a little bit distracting or a little bit
addicting or sometimes you want to be
able to spend just a little bit more
time in the moment instead of looking at
the world through your smartphone or
just scrolling all the time and so the
self-control argument always comes up
but there's also been this new wave of
devices specifically created to not be
as distracting some people are calling
them dumb phones sometimes they're even
more limited communication but the thing
they all have in common is they
literally can't get caught in a doom
scrolling Loop because they don't have
apps or any distractions on them at all
they're purely for function and this one
of them has a bit of a cult following
now the books Palma I I picked it up
because I saw our audio man Ellis
started getting really into it seen it
in a studio video then there's these
articles about it and these reviews of
it and people pouring their life into it
and daily driving it but the thing is
this is worse than a normal smartphone
like I don't want to just skip over that
like this it's the shape and size and
look of a normal smartphone it's got an
octacore CPU it's got 6 gigs of RAM it's
got a 6.1 in screen but it's worse there
is no SIM card tray so there is no
Cellular Connection at all there is no
selfie camera the rear camera is only a
low reses literal document scanner with
no video recording the speakers are
almost useless and it maxes out at 128
gigs of storage so yeah it's it's
clearly worse but if the mission is to
spend less time on your actual
smartphone then all of these downsides
are actually good
things you either get it or you don't
you know the thing about e-readers is
they are typically pretty limited
single-use devices that only let you
read with a single app or a single
ecosystem of services like the newest
Kindle for example it's 100 bucks it's
thin and light everybody knows what a
Kindle is but really all it's meant to
do is read books from Amazon's Kindle
bookstore everything else is an
afterthought then there's stuff like the
Cobo Libra 2 which is a super popular
alternative costs 200 bucks it has some
extra journaling features and Pen input
but this thing cannot play a single song
from Spotify like the theme in this
devic is are solid but of course nothing
is real as versatile or capable as a
full-on smartphone so enter the books
Palma the books Palma this thing runs
Android and is basically just a straight
up smartphone inside without those data
modems so even though it's this awesome
epaper display and looks like a moving
newspaper with A+ readability and all
the benefits that come with the normal
e-reader being easy on the eyes you can
technically also put whatever you want
on it it has the Google Play Store you
can sideload AP K so yes you can install
the Kindle app and read Kindle books if
you want but also you can install the
pocket app or rain drop.io or readwise
reader and read articles you've saved
you can also install Audible and listen
to ebooks with Bluetooth headphones you
can also install Spotify and use it as a
portable zero distractions music player
or podcast player the list goes on so if
smartphones are op they're up here and
single-purpose e-readers are limited
they're more down here then the book's
Palama is like right in here which is
it's clearly better than a
single-purpose e-reader it's more
capable but it's clearly not as capable
as a full-on smartphone but just enough
to be kind of charming in a sort of
can't get sucked into a Tik Tock rabbit
hole type of way if you know you
know yeah now a couple neat special
things that you should know that you've
seen before if you're in the eader world
battery life is well compared to a smart
phone it's actually incredible so this
shouldn't be a surprise but if you
didn't know eink basically only uses
battery when it's actually refreshing
and moving the ink around so when it's
just sitting on one page or just showing
something for an extended time that
actually doesn't use power so battery
life on the books here is in the realm
of days not hours sometimes weeks for a
light user the only other thing that can
eat into battery really is the back
light or in this case actually the front
light so iing screens aren't lit from
behind but there are lights around the
front so you can still light it up and
read in Darker conditions and that light
can be tinted to match the color
temperature of whatever room you're in
and there are some apps that also will
let you map the side buttons to flipping
pages instead of just being volume
buttons like they normally are and then
there are different settings for the
refresh modes as well so all the way to
the left is HD mode which has the
highest quality image with the least
ghosting but that's going to be also the
slowest refresh rate so that's fine for
just sitting and reading but on the far
right mode is ultra fast mode which will
have the smoothest relative refresh rate
but also the worst quality this is when
you scroll and you kind of see a little
bit of that ghosting in the background
of the previous image honestly it gets
quick enough to be able to legibly watch
videos if you really really wanted to
it's kind of this trippy Harry Potter
daily profit kind of world where
remember the moving newspapers from the
movies like obviously there's no colors
and on this model there's not nearly
enough resolution to fully appreciate
the video but still kind of neat it's
better than nothing but most of the time
I leave it inbalanced which is the
default and I'm happy to basically never
actually watch videos on this thing now
a couple times throughout this video
I've said you've heard me say things
like hey if you know you know or you
either get it or you don't and so you
may be wondering if I've been converted
if I'm joining this books Pama mini cult
if I'm going to daily this thing
no absolutely not matter of fact if you
want to watch the experience of someone
who actually did try to daily this thing
I'll link the studio video below where
Ellis like really he went to the full
lengths to try and you know carried a
Wi-Fi hotspot to always have it
connected everywhere since there's no
SIM card and I mean I don't want to
spoil the video but like it's a lot of
work and it's not really worth it but
that's almost like it's like overlapping
like it's missing the point this is I
think meant to be or at least it's in
its best State when it is a device that
you avoid smartphone tasks on like this
as a secondary device that can be my
alarm clock in the morning that I just
reach over and hit dismiss and I'm not
immediately drowned in notifications
because there literally is no
notification system and I'm not tempted
to jump into Tik toks and reals because
it really doesn't do that well like
maybe there's something to that like
maybe there's something to a a dedicated
reading device that you can bring
anywhere with you on any daily commute
that doesn't ever suck you into the
rabbit hole of Twitter or reals or
whatever like real people want that like
I kind of love this as a literal like an
iPod like a portable offline music
player that I literally never watch
YouTube videos on it's kind of charming
in that way and this is somehow all of
those things in one so you know I
couldn't necessarily tell you the exact
moment or why the books Palma became
like the face of this movement of these
types of devices especially when there
are other Alternatives that keep getting
sent to me that are similar stuff like
the high sense A9 or the cobro Libra
color um then again the high sense
A9 is a smartphone it costs a bit more
and it has a data connection and some
people just don't really want it to do
all that and the Cobo Libra color as
implied by the name that that's the one
with the color display and that's also
just a little bit bit extra so kind of
feels like the books is in the exact
goldilock zone of just enough missing
features that it's captured people's
hearts and you know that's how it goes
sometimes sometimes you're the at m50s
that represent all affordable good
sounding headphones maybe you're the
GoPro that represents all Smart Action
cameras that's the books Pama and that's
why it exists this has been MKBHD thanks
for watching catch you guys in the next
one peace